hello my name is Shawn today I'm going
to explain the basics of an operating
system so that you have an understanding
of its desired purpose we will be
covering key concepts and definitions
whilst briefly touching upon the
essentials of operating systems so what
is an operating system in simple terms
it is the chief program that manages all
of the hardware and software it has
control of every process file section of
memory and device it is very important
if it works as a middleman making sure
both hardware and software interact
correctly Windows Mac OS Linux and UNIX
are the big operating system contenders
and all have their own advantages and or
disadvantages but they are all based off
the same concept there are four
essential managers of every operating
system and they all work together like a
team to get jobs completed the operating
system works as their boss and to make
sure they are all working in harmony the
memory manager is in charge of the main
memory it scans every request for memory
space and checks if it is valid it
allows allocation of memory spaces that
are not taken up already memory spaces
may need to be D allocated to free up
space for other requests the process
manager decides how to allocate the
brain of the computer known as the
central processing unit it is necessary
that the process manager keeps track of
the status of each process it has to
handle jobs as they enter the system and
manage each process that is associated
with those jobs the device manager
monitors every device channel and
control unit it has to choose the most
efficient way to allocate all of the
system devices that are connected to the
computer USB sticks printers and
external hard drives are examples of
this the file manager checks every
the file that is on the system this
means data files Program Files compilers
and installed applications
it sets permissions so that certain
users can only see certain files so when
you log in to your guest account you
cannot browse through the
administrator's files as you do not have
the permission to do so another manager
worth mentioning is the network manager
this provides a way for users to share
hardware and software resources while
also controlling the users access to
them so we now understand how it works
under the hood so how do we the user
interact with the operating system we
rely on the use of a user interface this
gives us a visual understanding of what
we are trying to do when we interact
with the system so when you click and
hold a file to move it into a folder
you're making the managers work to carry
out the request in the next few
tutorials we will be digging deeper into
managers and looking at how they work
together this has been Shawn and do not
forget to subscribe to the SM KS channel